# Burrower-Bugs-diet-and-pop-gen
 Data and Code associated to our study on the peanut burrower bug population genetics and molecular gut content analysis

## "Intro"
_Pangaeus_ _bilineatus_, the peanut burrower bug, is an emerging peanut pest in North America. Belonging to the family Cydnidae, the nymphal stages of this insect can cause damage on peanut seeds that is not only undesirable for farmers, but also represent significant losses for this industry. The goal of our study was to characterize the population genetics of _P._ _bilineatus_ at different peanut farms in GA, one of the main sources of peanut worldwide. In addition, we also sampled plant DNA from these insects to gain further insight on their dietary habits. We also investigated the population genetics and diet breadth of another species, _Dallasiellus_ _lugubris_, also a burrower bug commonly found in peanut farms, but its role in peanut damage is much less known than the peanut burrower bug. _D._ _lugubris_ shares morphological similarities with _P._ _bilineatus_, which results in mistaken identification of peanut burrower bug, in particular by untrained personnel. We found an unexpected variety of likely food items and, therefore, plant hosts for these insects. In addition, we found evidence that these insects can easily move between fields, as shown by the low genetic variability among the populations we sampled. Collectively, this new information on diet and population dynamics of these insects help delineate more effective pest management strategies in the future.

In this repository we make available all code written for this study, to allow transparency and reproducibility of our data analyses and results.

## Molecular validation of species identification
Samples were sorted from light traps, and every specimen similar to _P._ _bilineatus_ was selected and their DNA extracted. Diet information was obtained from sequencing a total of  three batches of samples. For two batches of burrower bugs ("PBB2" and "PBB3"), DNA was submitted for both diet analysis (targeting the _trnF_ gene, PacBio sequencing at Washington State University) and for RAD-Seq sequencing (Illumina platform, service provided by SNPsaurus Inc.), whereas the remaining batch of samples ("PBB1") was only sequenced for _trnF_.
